 Growtopia - My Framer Site DENN Works About Contact DENN Works About Contact DENN ROLE Game Designer (Economy Design | Content Design | LiveOps) STUDIO UBISOFT YEAR: 2025 rm -rf src/app/page.module.css Growtopia about. PlaystoreLink Growtopia is a free-to-play, massively multiplayer online (MMO) 2D sandbox game where players can create unlimited worlds, build anything they can imagine, and interact with a global community. [Economy Design] Analyzing Season Pass Progression Challenge I was tasked with auditing and optimizing the season pass to boost key KPIs like purchase conversion, completion rates, revenue per buyer, and retention ————————————————————————————————————————————————————— My Approach Analyze the Drop-off Points: I started to pull the telemetry data for the current season pass. Asking questions like, at what specific tier are players stopping? Is there a massive churn spike at Tier 15? If so, why? Is the XP gap between Tier 14 and 15 too high, or is the reward at Tier 15 terrible? Audit XP sources : Grow is a game with multiple liveOps event in a single month. I had to document Where are players getting their XP? Are they grinding one specific, boring activity because it’s the most mathematically efficient? Community Sentiment vs. Math: I started looking into Discord and Reddit. Sometimes the math is perfectly balanced, but the perceived grind felt awful. If players say "it takes too long," it usually means "the rewards I'm getting along the way aren't worth the time I'm spending." Calculate the "Total Time to Complete": Map out exactly how many hours/actions are required to hit the max tier. Rebalance the Pacing Curve: Early Game (Tiers 1-5): Goal was to make it extremely fast. Give them a dopamine hit immediately. This acts as onboarding to the season and drives premium conversion. Mid Game (Tiers 6-20): Smooth out the curve. Shift the XP weight heavily toward Daily and Weekly Quests rather than raw grinding. I wanted to create healthy session lengths (preventing burnout) and drive returning DAU. Late Game / Chase (Tiers 21+): Goal was to increase the friction but ensure the rewards match the effort. Solution &amp; Result Adoption rate of pass went up from 5-7% , A/B testing with past configuration proved the current configuration won. [Content Design] Owning a key liveops asset Challenge In total I have designed 10+ items and shipped 3 items but there is one item I would like to talk about. I was tasked with designing the Hero item for Growpass November 2025. I had a strict 2 week deadline to go from zero to final design. The challenge wasn't just about creating the item, I had to rapidly deconstruct the game's existing visual language, decode what drop player motivation in an open economy and synthesize that into a high-performing asset. ————————————————————————————————————————————————————— My Approach Rapid Research: With no time to waste, I analyzed 1,000+ existing items to identify the specific visual markers (VFX, rarity cues, animation styles) that players associated with "high value." This allowed me to "speak the language" of the game immediately. In my research I found that the most successful items in the game either had a easy to relate pop culture reference, or new mini gameplay system changes. Due to scope of the time I had to pick up the former approach. Thus I started another research on pop-culture, keeping in mind our player's demographic. Cross-Discipline Alignment: I defined the visual direction through moodboard, documented art asset requriement for each state and each edge case. Ensuring the Art team had a clear constraints but creative freedom. The goal was to keep it as less iterative as possible. A small glimplse at my Brainstorming Process for an item before discussing with the team Solution &amp; Result A good impact release : The November pass had hit its mark as a successful release, succeeding in getting the projected numbers. Technical Ownership : During the item implementation the shipped particle and vfx that was supposed to be done from code didn't match the design. I dove into the code (XML) to fix it myself. Ensuring the final product not only matched the vision but was delivered on time. [Economy Design] Balancing the Drop Rates Designing a economy for an open-market game like Growtopia is a challenge of its own. I was responsible for balancing the November event drops which means fine tuning the drop rates of items that were dropping from events from November. In this game each item are traded for "World Locks" or "Diamond Locks", the value of an item isn't just determined by its utility, but by its scarcity relative to the total currency in circulation. Well I cannot give the exact calculation due to NDA restraints but I can explain the work process and the logic. Tool used: EXCEL ——————————————————————————————————————————————— Logic: First step was to find the Hard Cap and Soft Cap targets. (How many of each items we want to exist in the entire game after certain time period) . Knowing player base size and gathering past data we calculate the saturation point. Is the item consumable or permanent ? Or if the item is transmutable. If the item has no way to leave the economy we make the drop rate significantly slower by adding a modifier. Opening frequency is calculated by taking in parameters like: Cost of entry, Gem Inflation and Time - gating. more to explore. Show More Clash of Beast Clash of Beast MyWhoosh MyWhoosh Linkedin Twitter Behance Curious about what we can create together? Let’s bring fun experiences to life! Get in Touch Available For Work +971 56294 6369 dennchenls@gmail.com Designed &amp; Developed by Dennchen Lama All rights reserved, DENN ©2024 Linkedin Twitter Behance Curious about what we can create together? Let’s bring fun experiences to life! Get in Touch Available For Work +971 56294 6369 dennchenls@gmail.com Designed &amp; Developed by Dennchen Lama All rights reserved, DENN ©2024 Linkedin Twitter Behance Curious about what we can create together? Let’s bring fun experiences to life! Get in Touch Available For Work +971 56294 6369 dennchenls@gmail.com Designed &amp; Developed by Dennchen Lama All rights reserved, YUYA ©2024 Create a free website with Framer, the website builder loved by startups, designers and agencies. 
